so how does the internet work most of us
know how to use the internet without
actually understanding how it works sort
of like electricity in your home you use
it every day but may not understand the
mechanics behind it
and if the electric grid is difficult to
understand then the internet must be
impossible right
wrong
in the next few minutes I'll put you in
the top 10 percent of people who
understand how the internet actually
works for security catalyst.com I'm
Aaron Titus
whenever most people think of the
internet this is what comes to mind
the internet is not a bubble Cloud even
in the new age of cloud computing the
whole fuzzy Cloud picture was created by
people more concerned about job security
than education
this is the internet
the internet is a wire a actually buried
in the ground it might be fiber optics
copper or occasionally beam to
satellites or through cell phone
networks but the internet is simply a
wire
the internet is useful because two
computers connected directly to this
wire can communicate a server is a
special computer connected directly to
the internet and web pages or files on
that server's hard drive
every server has a unique Internet
Protocol address or IP address just like
a postal address IP addresses help
computers find each other
but since
72.14.205.100 it doesn't exactly roll
off the tongue we also give them names
like google.com facebook.com or security
catalyst.com
so this is how it works your computer at
home is not a server because it's not
connected directly to the internet
computers you and I use every day are
called clients because they're connected
indirectly to the internet through an
internet service provider
here we'll pretend that this is my home
laptop and I'm using DSL
now let's pretend that I want to visit
aol.com which is coincidentally both a
server and an ISP
I hop onto my laptop with DSL go through
my ISP onto the internet and look at
AOL.com my computer connects with
aol.com and I can look at its web pages
now let's say that I want to send an
email to Aunt Ruth
and Ruth has AOL dial up from home and
I've got a Gmail account
I log onto gmail.com and compose a
message to Aunt Ruth's email address and
Ruth aol.com
once I click Send gmail.com sends the
email to aol.com the next day Aunt Ruth
dials into AOL servers and retrieves the
email
whenever an email picture or web page
travels across the internet computers
break the information into smaller
pieces called packets
when information reaches its destination
the packets are reassembled in their
original order to make a picture email
web page or tweet
okay so imagine you're at work sitting
next to your boss and you're both
surfing online
your boss is doing market research and
you're updating your Facebook profile
you're both sending packets back and
forth over the internet
but what's to keep your packets from
accidentally ending up on your boss's
screen that could be embarrassing
the solution to that problem is IP
addresses and routers
everything connected directly or
indirectly to the internet has an IP
address everything
that includes your computer servers cell
phones and all of the equipment in
between
anywhere two or more parts of the
internet intersect there's a piece of
equipment called a router
routers direct your packets around the
internet helping each packet get one
step closer to its destination
every time you visit a website upwards
of 10 to 15 routers may help your
packets find their way to and from your
computer
imagine each packet as a piece of candy
wrapped in several layers the first
layer is your computer's IP address
your computer sends the packet to the
first router which adds its own IP
address
each time the packet reaches a new
router another layer is added until it
reaches the server then when the server
sends back information it creates
packets with an identical wrapping as
the packet makes its way over the
internet back to your computer each
router unwraps a layer to discover where
to send the packet next until it reaches
your computer and not your bosses
and that's how the internet works in
five minutes or less and you're now
easily in the top 10 percent of people
who understand the basics of the
internet
if you found this video helpful check
out security catalyst.com for all kinds
of ideas on how to protect your
information
I'm Aaron Titus